docs(gpu): mig (#2077)
scaleway/docs-content: compute/gpu/how-to/use-nvidia-mig-technology.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to use the NVIDIA MIG technology on GPU Instances
  description: This section provides information about NVIDIA's MIG technology
content:
  h1: How to use the NVIDIA MIG technology on GPU Instances
  paragraph: This section provides information about NVIDIA's MIG technology
tags: NVIDIA H100 MIG multi-instance gpu
dates:
  validation: 2023-08-31
  posted: 2023-08-31
categories:
  - compute
---

<Message type="important">
  * Scaleway offers GPU Instances such as H100 PCIe GPU Instances, RENDER-S GPU Instance, etc.

>   * Nvidia uses the term *"GPU instance"* to designate a MIG partition of a GPU (MIG= Multi-Instance GPU)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Nvidia uses the term *"GPU Instance"* to designate a MIG partition of a GPU (MIG= Multi-Instance GPU)
```

>   * To avoid confusion, we will use the term GPU Instance in this document to designate the Scaleway GPU Instance. And we use *"MIG partition"* in the context of the MIG feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * To avoid confusion, we will use the term GPU Instance in this document to designate the Scaleway GPU Instance, and *"MIG partition"* in the context of the MIG feature.
```

</Message>

NVIDIA Multi-Instance GPU (MIG) is a technology introduced by NVIDIA to enhance the utilization and flexibility of their data center GPUs, specifically designed for virtualization and multi-tenant environments.
It allows a single physical GPU to be partitioned into up to seven smaller Instances, each of which operates as an independent MIG partition with its own dedicated resources, such as memory, compute cores, and video outputs.
MIG ensures one client cannot impact the work or scheduling of other clients and provides enhanced isolation for customers.

<Lightbox src="scaleway-multi-instance-gpu.webp" size="large" alt="" />

> With MIG, you are able to see and schedule jobs on virtual MIG partitions as if they were physical GPUs. MIG works with Linux operating systems and supports containers using Docker Engine, with support for Kubernetes and virtual machines using hypervisors such as Red Hat Virtualization and VMware vSphere.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With MIG, you are able to see and schedule jobs on virtual MIG partitions as if they were physical GPUs. MIG works with Linux operating systems and containers using Docker Engine, with support for Kubernetes and virtual machines using hypervisors such as Red Hat Virtualization and VMware vSphere.
```

Reviewer 2: to avoid saying support twice...

> Moreover, the following benefits are part of MIG:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MIG also provides you with the following benefits:
```

> * **Resource Sharing:** MIG allows multiple users or workloads to share a single physical GPU, which can lead to better resource utilization and cost savings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Resource sharing:** MIG allows multiple users or workloads to share a single physical GPU, which can lead to better resource utilization and cost savings.
```

> * **Complete isolation:** Each MIG partition is isolated from the others, ensuring that workloads running in one Instance do not interfere with or impact the performance of workloads in other Instances. With MIG, each MIG partition's processors have separate and isolated paths through the entire memory system - the on-chip crossbar ports, L2 cache banks, memory controllers, and DRAM address busses are all assigned uniquely to an individual Instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Complete isolation:** Each MIG partition is isolated from the others, ensuring that workloads running on one Instance do not interfere with or impact the performance of workloads in other Instances. With MIG, each MIG partition's processors have separate and isolated paths through the entire memory system - the on-chip crossbar ports, L2 cache banks, memory controllers, and DRAM address busses are all assigned uniquely to an individual Instance.
```

> * **Complete isolation:** Each MIG partition is isolated from the others, ensuring that workloads running on one Instance do not interfere with or impact the performance of workloads in other Instances. With MIG, each MIG partition's processors have separate and isolated paths through the entire memory system - the on-chip crossbar ports, L2 cache banks, memory controllers, and DRAM address busses are all assigned uniquely to an individual Instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Complete isolation:** Each MIG partition is isolated from the others, ensuring that workloads running on one Instance do not interfere with or impact the performance of workloads in other Instances. With MIG, each MIG partition's processors have separate and isolated paths through the entire memory system - the on-chip crossbar ports, L2 cache banks, memory controllers, and DRAM address buses are all assigned uniquely to an individual Instance.
```

* **Guaranteed resources:** MIG partitions can be configured with specific resource allocations, providing dedicated performance to different workloads. This is especially important in multi-tenant environments.

For more information about NVIDIA MIG, refer to the official [MIG documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/tesla/mig-user-guide/).

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />

<Message type="requirement">

>   - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway Console](https://console.scaleway.com) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com) 
```

  - You have created a [MIG compatible GPU Instance](/compute/gpu/how-to/create-manage-gpu-instance)
  - You have [generated your SSH key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
</Message>

## How to enable MIG on a GPU Instance

By default, the MIG feature of NVIDIA GPUs is disabled. To use it with your GPU Instance, you need to activate MIG.

> 1. Log in to your GPU Instance as root using SSH.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. [Connect to your GPU Instance](/compute/gpu/how-to/create-manage-gpu-instance/#how-to-connect-to-a-gpu-instance) as root using SSH.
```

> 1. Log in to your GPU Instance as root using SSH.

Reviewer 2: link to connection doc?

> 1. Log in to your GPU Instance as root user using SSH.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to your GPU Instance as root using SSH.
```

> 2. Check the status of the MIG mode of your Instance running nvidia-smi. It shows that MIG mode is disabled:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Check the status of the MIG mode of your Instance running `nvidia-smi`. It shows that MIG mode is disabled:
```

    ```s
    root@my-h100-instance:~# nvidia-smi -i 0
    Tue Aug 22 11:58:39 2023
    +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | NVIDIA-SMI 525.125.06   Driver Version: 525.125.06   CUDA Version: 12.0     |
    |-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
    | GPU  Name        Persistence-M| Bus-Id        Disp.A | Volatile Uncorr. ECC |
    | Fan  Temp  Perf  Pwr:Usage/Cap|         Memory-Usage | GPU-Util  Compute M. |
    |                               |                      |               MIG M. |
    |===============================+======================+======================|
    |   0  NVIDIA H100 PCIe    On   | 00000000:01:00.0 Off |                    0 |
    | N/A   40C    P0    51W / 350W |      0MiB / 81559MiB |      0%      Default |
    |                               |                      |             Disabled |
    +-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
    ```

> 2. Enable MIG mode on the GPU by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the following command to enable MIG mode on the GPU:
```

    ```s
    root@my-h100-instance:~# sudo nvidia-smi -i 0 -mig 1
    Enabled MIG Mode for GPU 00000000:01:00.0
    All done.
    ```

> 3. Verify that MIG mode is enabled on the GPU by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run the following command to verify that MIG mode is enabled on the GPU:
```

    ```s
    root@my-h100-instance:~# nvidia-smi -i 0 --query-gpu=pci.bus_id,mig.mode.current --format=csv
    pci.bus_id, mig.mode.current
    00000000:01:00.0, Enabled
    ```
    MIG is now enabled for the GPU Instance.

## How to list MIG Profiles
The NVIDIA driver provides several predefined profiles you can choose from while setting up the MIG (Multi-Instance GPU) feature on the H100.

> These profiles determine the available sizes and functionalities of the MIG partitions that users can generate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These profiles determine the sizes and functionalities available of the MIG partitions that users can generate.
```

> Additionally, the driver supplies details regarding placements, which specify the specific types and quantities of instances that can be established. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the driver supplies details regarding placements, which specify the types and quantities of Instances that can be established. 
```

Refer to the official documentation for more information about the supported [MIG profiles on H100 GPU Instances](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/tesla/mig-user-guide/#h100-profiles).

> 1. Run the command `nvidia-smi mig -lgip` to retrieve a list of the available MIG profiles for the Instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the command `nvidia-smi mig -lgip` to retrieve a list of the available MIG profiles for the Instance. An output similar to the following displays:
```

    Successfully created compute instance ID  0 on GPU  0 GPU instance ID  7 using profile MIG 1g.10gb (ID  0)
    Successfully created GPU instance ID  8 on GPU  0 using profile MIG 1g.10gb (ID 19)
    Successfully created compute instance ID  0 on GPU  0 GPU instance ID  8 using profile MIG 1g.10gb (ID  0)
    Successfully created GPU instance ID  9 on GPU  0 using profile MIG 1g.10gb (ID 19)
    Successfully created compute instance ID  0 on GPU  0 GPU instance ID  9 using profile MIG 1g.10gb (ID  0)
    ```

    The command `nvidia-smi mig -cgi 9,19,19,19 -C` is used to manage NVIDIA MIG partitions and their configurations using the NVIDIA System Management Interface (`nvidia-smi`) tool.

    Here is a breakdown of the components of the command:

    * `nvidia-smi`: is the command-line tool provided by NVIDIA to interact with and manage NVIDIA GPUs.
    * `mig`: is a subcommand of `nvidia-smi` specifically used for managing MIG partitions. MIG (Multi-Instance GPU) allows a single NVIDIA GPU to be partitioned into multiple smaller instances, each with its own memory, compute, and other resources.

>     * `-cgi 9,19,19,19`: This flag is used to specify the MIG partition configuration. The numbers following the flag represent the MIG partitions for each of the four MIG device slices. In this case, there are four slices with configurations 9, 19, 19, and 19 compute instances each. These numbers correspond to the profile IDs retrieved previously. Note that you can use either one of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `-cgi 9,19,19,19`: this flag specifies the MIG partition configuration. The numbers following the flag represent the MIG partitions for each of the four MIG device slices. In this case, there are four slices with configurations 9, 19, 19, and 19 compute instances each. These numbers correspond to the profile IDs retrieved previously. Note that you can use either of the following:
```

      * Profile ID (e.g. 9, 14, 5)
      * Short name of the profile (e.g. `3g.40gb`)
      * Full profile name of the instance (e.g. `MIG 3g.40gb`)

>     * `-C`: This flag automatically creates the corresponding compute instances for the MIG partitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `-C`: this flag automatically creates the corresponding compute instances for the MIG partitions.
```

>     The command instructs the `nvidia-smi` tool to set up a MIG configuration where the GPU is divided into four slices, each containing different numbers of MIG partition configurations as specified: A MIG 3g.40gb (Profile ID 9) for the first slice, and a MIG 1g.10gb (Profile ID 19) for each of the remaining three slices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The command instructs the `nvidia-smi` tool to set up a MIG configuration where the GPU is divided into four slices, each containing different numbers of MIG partition configurations as specified: an MIG 3g.40gb (Profile ID 9) for the first slice, and an MIG 1g.10gb (Profile ID 19) for each of the remaining three slices.
```

    <Message type="note">
      Running CUDA workloads on the GPU requires the creation of MIG partitions along with their corresponding compute instances. Just enabling MIG mode on the GPU is not enough to achieve this.
      Additionally, it is important to understand that any MIG devices created will not be retained after the system is rebooted.
      This means if the GPU or system is reset, you will have to set up the desired MIG configurations again.

>       You can utilize the [NVIDIA MIG Partition Editor](https://github.com/nvidia/mig-parted) (`mig-parted`) tool for automated assistance in this process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      You can use the [NVIDIA MIG Partition Editor](https://github.com/nvidia/mig-parted) (`mig-parted`) tool for automated assistance in this process.
```

      This tool offers the option of creating a systemd service, which can be used to reestablish the MIG geometry when the system starts up.
    </Message>

> 2. Verify the MIG configuration of the GPU by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the following command to verify the MIG configuration of the GPU:
```

    |                          ID       ID       Start:Size |
    |=======================================================|
    |   0  MIG 1g.10gb         19        7          0:1     |
    +-------------------------------------------------------+
    |   0  MIG 1g.10gb         19        8          1:1     |
    +-------------------------------------------------------+
    |   0  MIG 1g.10gb         19        9          2:1     |
    +-------------------------------------------------------+
    |   0  MIG 3g.40gb          9        2          4:4     |
    +-------------------------------------------------------+
    ```
3. Display the UUID of each of your MIG partitions:
    ```s
    root@my-h100-instance:~# nvidia-smi -L
    GPU 0: NVIDIA H100 PCIe (UUID: GPU-7cd6d4d6-9fa8-13be-3c42-09a1b2280a02)
      MIG 3g.40gb     Device  0: (UUID: MIG-da06d78f-7534-56a0-a062-62fef012be91)
      MIG 1g.10gb     Device  1: (UUID: MIG-8aa1fc52-9818-58ec-bc64-8f0cae121bb4)
      MIG 1g.10gb     Device  2: (UUID: MIG-42fa9c93-1430-5ccc-b623-c02fb93b7f5a)
      MIG 1g.10gb     Device  3: (UUID: MIG-6d96b431-44ba-5360-80b0-9359561c927d)
    ```

> 4. Run nvidia-smi on three 1g.10gb MIG partitons to display their characeristics:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Run `nvidia-smi` on three 1g.10gb MIG partitions to display their characteristics:
```

    +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | Processes:                                                                  |
    |  GPU   GI   CI        PID   Type   Process name                  GPU Memory |
    |        ID   ID                                                   Usage      |
    |=============================================================================|
    |  No running processes found                                                 |
    +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    ```
5. Launch a Jupyter Notebook within a Docker container on the MIG 3g.40gb MIG partition. Once initiated, you can reach it by connecting to port 8888 using the public IP of your GPU Instance.
    ```s
    root@my-h100-instance:~# sudo docker run --runtime=nvidia     -e NVIDIA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=MIG-da06d78f-7534-56a0-a062-62fef012be9 -p 8888:8888 jupyter/minimal-notebook
    ```

<Lightbox src="scaleway-jupyter-gpu-instance.webp" size="large" alt="" />

## How to delete MIG partitions

Once you have finished your jobs, you can delete the MIG partitions.

> 1. If you intend to remove all MIG partitions and their corresponding compute instances, run the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To remove all MIG partitions and their corresponding compute instances, run the following command:
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Run the following command to remove all MIG partitions and their corresponding compute instances:
```

    ```s
    root@my-h100-instance:~# sudo nvidia-smi mig -dci && sudo nvidia-smi mig -dgi
    Successfully destroyed compute instance ID  0 from GPU  0 GPU instance ID  7
    Successfully destroyed compute instance ID  0 from GPU  0 GPU instance ID  8
    Successfully destroyed compute instance ID  0 from GPU  0 GPU instance ID  9
    Successfully destroyed compute instance ID  0 from GPU  0 GPU instance ID  2
    Successfully destroyed GPU instance ID  7 from GPU  0
    Successfully destroyed GPU instance ID  8 from GPU  0
    Successfully destroyed GPU instance ID  9 from GPU  0
    Successfully destroyed GPU instance ID  2 from GPU  0
    ```

> 2. Verify that the MIG partitions have successfully been removed by running the `nvidia-smi` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Verify that the MIG partitions have been removed by running the `nvidia-smi` command:
```
